This was, I think, about the first week of March.
And I never saw anybody from the second hurdle on.
And it was very pleasant. All right. Then Texas
Relays, I guess, that was a big meet in those days,
wasn't it? It was the biggest meet. It was the first
outdoor meet in the country. Oh. And it was...
always on the
second weekend of April. And all the big schools
from up north would come down because that would
give them a chance to run outdoors for the first
time. And the Midwestern schools were very
powerful in those days, Oklahoma, Oklahoma.
And Minnesota, Michigan, Notre Dame, they'd come
down. And a lot of the smaller schools that were big
in track would come down as well. And they had a lot
of distance people. And they would come down and
compete. And that was my first big meet. In fact,
that was, well, no, I take it back. The first big
meet was the Fort Worth Fat Stock Show meet. at
Farrington Field in mid-March.
And we did quite well. We had a powerful freshman
track team that year. And we wiped everybody out.
And we had powerful hurdlers, powerful
sprinters, powerful relay teams. and we were
pretty good in the field events too. We had a good
high jumper, Don Graves from Brownwood. Weight
men, we were a little shy. Colonel Landy didn't
recruit
weight men that year because he still had George
Cadera for another two years. I guess that's why he
didn't recruit any weight men until he recruited
Darragh Hooper the following year. Right, and
then at the Texas Relays, you went over there? I won
there. I won the high hurdles and set a new freshman
record. And that trophy up there came from the
Texas Relays. How good. Clyde Littlefield
presented it with tight jaws, I might add.
Remember what the time was? Yeah, I think it was...
14-7. And
how did that compare with the varsity times?
Varsity times were 14-6. So you were right. All
right, then any other big meets before the
conference meet? No, we didn't. Freshmen didn't
have a conference meet. Oh, you didn't? Oh,
really? No. We ran against Texas and Rice Fish.
We'd have a triangular meet, and that was a
conference meet because there wasn't anybody
else that had a powerful fish team in the
conference then. Did you lose any of the high
hurdles that year? No, I was undefeated in both
hurdles that year. So how did you feel
athletically when you finished that spring as
competition? I felt good. Did you have any goals
you hadn't reached?
Goal setting hadn't been invented then. Okay.
Like you hear today. And I had no particular goals
except just to do the best that I could. What did you
eat or drink or not eat or drink? Or what were your
diet and behavior rules for yourself? I had none,
just don't overload myself on the day of a meet. And
always try to have a bowel movement so that I'd be a
couple of pounds lighter. And not eat just right
before. Did you drink soft drinks and eat ice cream
and malts or anything? Oh yes, sure. And there were
no vitamin additives then, were there? They were
available, but nobody took them. Steroids hadn't
been invented. Herbal supplements were
something that you fed the rabbits and goats. No,
things were very simple then. And you weighed,
what did you weigh then? I weighed 172 pounds. And
you're what, 6'1"? I was 6'1". Okay. So as that
spring is ending, has your wife moved up to College
Station yet? Not yet. Okay. She would come up and
the Andersons would move out of their master suite
into
Rusty's bedroom and Rusty would bunk with Wally.
at 501 Fairview, and as a matter of fact, we spent
our honeymoon in the Anderson's Master Suite that
whole week.
Think how, by today's rules, that would probably
be some NCAA violation that the coach provided.
That would be putting it mildly. I can foresee
losing 10 scholarships, never being able to
participate in the NCAA meet, all kinds of bad
things like that. Now, do you remember what your
best time was that spring? Yes. It was 14-5 in the
high hurdles, which beat the Southwest
Conference time that year, and 22-9 in the low
hurdles, which broke the Southwest Conference
record. And let's see,
in high school, was it 200 yard? 200 yards. But in
the college, was it 220? 220. 220. But it was 110 in
both the highs. 120 in both. 120 in both. We ran
yards. Oh, yeah, yeah. I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Okay, so as you go home, as school is out that
spring, how did you feel about that first year? I
felt very good about it. I'd had a great time. I had
done far better than I ever anticipated.
My folks were ecstatic with my grades. Colonel
Landy, I might add, was a little proud as well. And I
was inducted into Phi Eta Sigma, an honorary
scholastic fraternity.
The Beaumont A&M Club was also quite proud.
Did anybody... Charlie Babcock was proud. Did
anybody ever come up to you that year or any other
year and try to hand you some money on the side or
anything that would have been inappropriate? I'm
surprised you would ask that.
You ever hear of the Coconose Brothers? Mm-hmm,
mm-hmm. Beaumont. That's C-O-K-I-N-O-S. That's
right. There were four brothers, Genos, Jimmy,
Mike, and Andy.
They spent a lot of time on campus, particularly
during football season. Jimmy would always come
up with his cronies, and they'd stay, I don't know,
someplace. And mysteriously, a black Ford would
appear in the parking lot behind Hart Hall. And
mysteriously, an envelope would appear under my
door that would say, the key to that car is under the
floor mat. And be sure and look in the glove
compartment. And I would look in the glove
compartment and there would be an envelope with a
$20 bill in it. And boy, a $20 bill would go a long way
in College Station. And frequently, my bride to be
would get a ride of Jimmy for the football season,
if my folks weren't coming. But no, other than
that, when I'd go home, of course, I couldn't buy I
couldn't buy a meal when I'd go out. Charlie Meyer
was the High Sheriff of Jefferson County.
He'd always insist that you come down to see him on
Christmas Eve and you'd go down there and he'd slap
a pint of Old Crow in your hand. It was a different
era. What did you do that first summer? I went to
work for Trotty and Thompson Construction
Company, a couple of Aggies, Jess Thompson and
Bill Trotty. They were late 20s, early 30s
vintage. And they had a road construction company
there in Beaumont. They did city streets and farm
to market roads. And Ben Ramsey was the lieutenant
governor at that time, and Ben Ramsey would make
sure that Farmer Market Roads always got on the
legislative agenda, since he said it was the
Lieutenant Governor, and Trotty and Thompson got
their share of contracts. It did not hurt that
Trotty and Thompson was an informal subsidiary of
Brown and Rupp,
and I hired on with Trotty and Thompson and worked
roads, dug ditches, menial labor until they found
out that I could drive a truck. And then I drove a
truck and did menial labor. And then I drove a
tanker truck, a water truck for them and worked for
them every summer for four years. All right, then
in the fall of 49, coming back for your sophomore
year, you're staying in business as a major.
That's right. Do you remember what it was
officially titled? Was it called Business or
Business Administration? It was called the
Department of Business Administration. Okay.
And did your wife come with you then? Yes. And where
did you all live? We lived...
We lived there. It was 16... 16 by 16 foot hut, it was
called. You may have seen pictures of the drill
field in World War I, how they had these shacks all
around the drill field. And that's what that was.
And Colonel Andy bought one of those and moved it to
his property for use as a servant's quarters. And
this was on the back of the... The back of their
house. And they lived on the south side of the
campus? on the south side of the campus at 501
Fairview, which was about four blocks from
South Side Grocery, which is where Rother's
bookstore is now. Yeah, yeah. And you paid rent?
No. Okay. No rent. All right, what did your, did
your wife have a job or did she stay home? No, she
stayed home.
There were just no jobs available. All right. You
still were in the Corps officially. Oh,
absolutely. And so you wore your uniforms. Every
day. Describe your routine then as a young married
man going to Texas A&M.
I would ride my bicycle to the first class. If I felt
like it, I would stop at Sabisa and have breakfast
so my wife wouldn't have to get up and cook. We had an
old Detroit Jewel, Detroit Jewel it's called, gas
stove. And incidentally, we had to put an extra gas
line out there to put in a water heater. That place
did not have hot water. So my father-in-law and my
dad, brought a hot water heater up one day used and
we put that sucker in and we had hot water and we
washed dishes in the bathtub. But I would go to my
first class on a bicycle and most of the classes
were down in the
in the shacks they were called. And those were at
Northgate? No, those were where the water tower is
now. Yeah, yeah. I mean, on the north side of the
campus. On the north side of the campus, yeah. And
they were World War II leftover prefabs? They were
World War II barracks buildings. Oh, barracks,
okay. That had been partitioned into classrooms.
Drafty and cold, if you wouldn't believe. Now, in
49, were freshmen back on the campus? No. They're
still? They're still out at Bryan Annex. But the
campus was crowded. because of the veterans.
That's right. We still had a lot of veterans. But
they were starting to dwindle off. The class of 50
was the largest class that had come through. I
think class of 50 had 1,500 students in it. We had
about 1,250 in our class of 52. What did you young
kids think about those old World War II veterans?
We were in awe.
They didn't talk much about it. They didn't
particularly want to. Particularly those who had
been in combat. Now those who had not been in combat
would open up more and tell you what barracks life
was like and this kind of business. But we didn't
bug them because
We'd leave them alone. But we had a number of
veterans in our classes. That bicycle that you
rode to the campus, you never locked it, did you?
No. And would you sometimes... Never thought
about it. Yeah. Did you sometimes take from class
to class or did you leave it at Sebesa? Well, I'd
leave it at Sebesa. I took it with me from Every
building. And did you come back and eat lunch on
campus or go home? I'd come back and eat lunch at
Sbisa. And your degree plan was set up so that you
would graduate in four years. Oh, yes, sir.
Everybody's was. Today's kids cannot believe it.
You took 19 hours? My goodness. How could you
handle that many? Well, engineering students had
more than that. That's right. And the students
just cannot believe that.
Did you go home to eat lunch or eat on campus? I ate at
Sabisa. At Sabisa. And then in the fall, you're a
sophomore, junior, and seniors. You're still
working out cross-country. We'd go to that
cross-country course and sprain our ankles.
Colonel Andy let us get by with three days a week.
But then of course up popped the Sugar Bowl meet.
Sugar Bowl had a track meet. I don't know if you do
that. Yeah, I remember that. But those of us who
were invited to the Sugar Bowl meet would have to
start a pretty strenuous workout schedule in
November and December. all the way through the
Christmas holidays. And that got to be a pain. I
mean, it was an honor to be invited to run in Sugar
Bowl meet, but we had other things that we wanted to
do. But we showed up, and we gave a good account of
ourself. I was running against the West Coast
record holder. And I came in second in the higher.
Didn't have it lower. In those days, for meets like
that, did you get a ribbon or a medal? What were the
symbols of victory? For the larger meets, a medal.
For the triangular meets and that sort of thing,
you get a pat on the back. What about conference
meets? Conference meets? First three places got
medals. And even after they went to scoring five
and six places, it was still first three places got
medals. And so as you and your wife are settling in
to being a married couple, what did you all do at
night? We'd listen to the radio. We would play
Canasta with Wally and Rusty Anderson.
If you got your freshman numeral, which meant you
lettered as a freshman, because freshmen were not
varsity eligible in those days, you also got 20
tickets, free tickets, to Guyon Hall, which is
where movies were shown on cameras. And there
were... various and sundry other perquisites
that one came by surreptitiously. What was it like
to go to a Gien Hall movie? How did the Aggies
conduct themselves in there? Oh, well, when a
pretty girl would come on the screen, you know, the
whistles.
But they were a pretty orderly bunch. And you could
get old-fashioned popcorn and all that there. You
could get popcorn and no gum. They didn't want it on
their seats. Where else did a young couple go in the
evenings if you wanted? You could go to a campus
movie, which is where something Canyon, Shadow
Canyon I think is now. And
we didn't have any money. And if we did have money,
there was no place to go. We'd play bridge. We'd go
over to other couples' houses. A pretty simple
life. A big weekend was when you'd get your $10 a
month laundry check, and you'd find somebody,
some other couple who had a car, and you would go
down to the Triangle Drive Inn, which is where
Chicken Oil Company is now. And you'd get a big,
juicy hamburger on a giant elephant ear bun. And
that was really living it up. You could get a
hamburger for 50 cents and a huge Coke for two bits.
Now, if a couple, whether it be y'all or anyone
else, if a young couple wanted to do something
pretty wild, What possibilities were there in
Brazos County? I don't know where you'd do it. I'm
not sure what you mean by why. Was there a place that
a person could get legally or otherwise alcoholic
beverages? Not legally, but you could get it.
Whiskey Bridge was the closest place. And the old
stone statues are still there to this day. The
bridge has been dismantled, I guess sold for
scrap. But you'd just go across Whiskey Bridge and
get a half pint, or a pint was the most anybody could
afford. And you'd have to make that last. Now, was
Uncle Ed's operating in that era? Uncle Ed's was
operating in, of course, I never took my wife out to
Uncle Ed's. I don't know of anybody that took a date
out to Uncle Ed's either. We'd just go out there for
good bull and a couple of beers. Now, beer was
legal, wasn't it? In Brassets County. Brassets
County, that's what I mean, yeah. Was there a boot,
nobody that I've asked this question of has had an
answer that yes, they did. Did you ever hear of a
bootlegger in Brassets County? Never did. And
there was no House of Ill Repute in Brassets
County, was there? I never heard anybody mention
one. Brenham, I think, was the closest place. Now,
was the chicken ranch, did you guys know about the
chicken ranch? Oh, yeah. Is that right? The
chicken ranch was alive and well. Did Aggies
really go over to the chicken ranch? Absolutely.
Was there any kind of a ritual that a fish was
supposed to go or anything like that?
I suppose there might have been. I wasn't aware of
it.
Fish didn't go, I guess for a couple of reasons.
They didn't have a car. They didn't have any money.
The upperclassmen had cars and usually a little
more money. And I don't know, maybe they'd get
together a car load once a semester or something
like that and go. Now there was no organized
activity on the campus for married students, was
there? There was no... No. Hey, honey. There were
no scheduled activities specifically for
married couples, were there? Student married
couples? Oh, I think there may have been some music
groups, bridge groups, something like that. We
had a bowling alley in the basement of the Y, but I
think there were two alleys or something. You just
didn't get a whole lot of people down there. Was Mr.
Cashin still active in those days? Which Cashin
are you talking about? Red and Jim's dad. I did not
know Mr. Cashin. Okay. He's the one that created
the Y, and I don't know when he died. Mrs. Cashin,
she ended up being the lady that ran the big board of
directors house on the north side of Sabeasa.
After he died, she was the lady responsible for
operating it. I remember the house, but I do not
remember Jesus Cash. What about religious
groups? Were you all churchgoers then?
Occasionally.
There were a number of religious groups for all
religions here. There was the Hillel Society for
the Jewish students, and they were very active.
There were Protestant men in the chapel. Each of
the local churches sponsored a youth activity
group that was geared towards students. Do you
remember Religious Emphasis Week in the spring? I
remember the name, I remember it happening,
but I was usually too involved off on a track trip
someplace to be able to participate. But we
weren't really churchy. Describe the student
body during your four years here. Describe the
student body in general. Where were they from?
What kinds of family backgrounds, their
attitudes, their ancestry, et cetera? The
majority of the student body was WASP, white,
Anglo-Saxon, Protestant. We had just a
smattering of Hispanics. A
few Jewish students, Aaron Cohen, a classmate of
mine. Aaron made a tremendous name for himself at
the Johnson Space Center.
How were Jewish students treated by the other
students? Just like everybody else. Not a bit of
difference. Same for the Hispanic students. They
were just part of the gang. Were there any
international students that you remember? There
were, but they were mostly graduate students and
we didn't have a lot of contact with them. They were
mostly in engineering and agriculture. And there
were almost no Asian students in those days, were
there? Not then. That's what I thought. There were
Latin American students,
no i don't recall any european students don't
recall any canadian students but there were there
were there was a rare asiatic student now there
were a bunch of catholic kids oh yeah german czech
polish you bet uh hometown clubs were still going
big then hometown clubs were big what were they why
were make believe i didn't know why they existed
well uh Because you got to get back with your own
kind and talk about, hey, who's going with Susie
now that she's off at TSCW, that kind of thing. And
who's got an extra seat in the car going home this
week? Who's going home? You kept book on who's
going home in the car. Did you ever hitchhike as an
Aggie? Frequently. Frequently. make believe I'd
never heard of that. Describe how an Aggie
hitchhiked. Well, at Eastgate,
there was what was called the Aggie Line. And the
first freshman to show up would be elected. Well,
he wasn't elected. He was told to go out there and
stand and stick out his thumb for a ride. We always
hitchhiked in uniform. And in those days, it was
easy to hitchhike. And people who came back and
forth on Highway 6 knew Aggies and they would
always stop to pick them up. The drill was that the
freshman who was standing out there with his thumb
out, when the car stopped, he'd say, yes sir, where
are you going and how many people can you take? The
driver would tell him and he'd holler back and say,
two going to Houston. The first two guys in line who
were going to Houston pick up their go to hell bag
and run out there and get in the car. And some of us
had these little tickets that we would give to the
driver of the car and solving them of any blame and
any liability and tell them who we are and that kind
of thing. So it made the driver feel better about
it. I've hitchhiked all over this state. All
right, if you were hitchhiking from Beaumont,
where was the best place to catch the ride? You'd go
out 290, I mean Highway 90, toward Houston at
Amelia, which in that day was about four or five
miles out of town. And after Highway 105 got to be
improved from being just a logging road, 105 was a
good place to go. You'd go about... four or five
miles north of town, where 105 came into 69, and 105
would bring you right into Navasota, and then
you'd get on Highway 6 and come up here. Was there a
special, and I don't know the answer to this one,
was there kind of a specially good place in Houston
to get a ride? Was there a certain corner? The
Houston A&M Club would put up little shacks out on
Highway 90 and on Highway 290, right where Highway
6 would take off from Highway 90, there was a shack.
And that would keep you out of the weather. And if I
may spin this little yarn. Please do. My roommate,
Walter Evans, and I were hitchhiking This was when
I was a freshman, he was a sophomore. For some
reason, Evans couldn't get a car off his dad's used
car lot that weekend and we were having to
hitchhike back late.